README.md, before:

# Ch

<a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg" alt="License: MIT"></a>
<a href="https://golang.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/go-1.21+-blue.svg" alt="Go 1.21+"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/MehmetMHY/ch" alt="GitHub stars"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch/graphs/contributors"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/MehmetMHY/ch" alt="Contributors"></a>

**⚠️ This project is actively developed and may have breaking changes. For a stable version, see the original [Cha](https://github.com/MehmetMHY/cha/)!**

## Table of Contents

- [Ch](#ch)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Vision](#vision)
  - [Quick Start](#quick-start)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [API Keys](#api-keys)
    - [Default Settings](#default-settings)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
    - [Interactive Commands](#interactive-commands)
    - [Advanced Features](#advanced-features)
  - [Platform Compatibility](#platform-compatibility)
  - [Development](#development)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Build from Source](#build-from-source)
    - [Available Make Commands](#available-make-commands)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
    - [Development Setup](#development-setup)
    - [Code Standards](#code-standards)
  - [License](#license)

## Overview

**Ch** is a lightweight, GoLang-based version of the popular [Cha](https://github.com/MehmetMHY/cha/) CLI tool. Built from the ground up in Go, Ch is over 10x faster at startup compared to Cha and delivers significantly faster performance for complex processes like codedump. While Cha offers more advanced and powerful features with a larger codebase, Ch prioritizes speed and efficiency, making it ideal for developers who need rapid AI interaction with minimal overhead.

## Vision

Ch follows the Unix philosophy of doing one thing well. It provides direct terminal access to powerful AI models with minimal overhead, transparent operations, and explicit user control. No hidden automation, no surprise file modifications—just fast, reliable AI interaction that integrates seamlessly into your development workflow.

## Quick Start

**Install:**

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MehmetMHY/ch/main/install.sh | bash
```

**Configure:**

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
```

**Start using:**

```bash
ch "What are the key features of Go programming language?"
```

## Features

- **High Performance**: 2.55x faster than the original Python implementation
- **Multi-Platform Support**: OpenAI, Groq, DeepSeek, Anthropic, XAI
- **Interactive & Direct Modes**: Chat interactively or run single queries
- **Smart File Handling**: Load files/directories with intelligent text detection
- **Advanced Export**: Interactive chat export with fzf selection and editor integration
- **Code Block Export**: Extract and save markdown code blocks with proper file extensions
- **Text Editor Integration**: Use your preferred editor for complex prompts
- **Dynamic Switching**: Change models and platforms mid-conversation
- **Chat Backtracking**: Revert to any point in conversation history
- **Code Dump**: Package entire directories for AI analysis
- **Colored Output**: Platform and model names displayed in distinct colors

## Installation

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MehmetMHY/ch/main/install.sh | bash
```

**Alternative methods:**

```bash
# using wget
wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MehmetMHY/ch/main/install.sh | bash

# manual clone and install
git clone https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch.git
cd ch
./install.sh
```

The installer automatically:

- Checks for Go 1.21+ and dependencies (fzf)
- Installs missing dependencies via system package managers
- Builds and installs Ch to `~/.ch/bin/ch`
- Creates global symlink at `/usr/local/bin/ch`
- Configures PATH if needed

## Configuration

### API Keys

Set up API keys for your chosen platforms:

```bash
# required
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-key"

# optional additional platforms
export GROQ_API_KEY="your-groq-key"
export DEEP_SEEK_API_KEY="your-deepseek-key"
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-anthropic-key"
export XAI_API_KEY="your-xai-key"
```

### Default Settings

Customize default platform and model:

```bash
export CH_DEFAULT_PLATFORM="groq"        # default: "openai"
export CH_DEFAULT_MODEL="llama3-8b-8192" # default: "gpt-4o-mini"
```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```bash
# interactive mode
ch

# direct query
ch "Explain quantum computing"

# platform-specific query
ch -p groq "Write a Go function to reverse a string"

# model-specific query
ch -m gpt-4o "Create a REST API in Python"

# export code blocks to files
ch -e "Write a Python script to sort a list"
```

### Interactive Commands

When in interactive mode (`ch`), use these commands:

| Command | Description                          |
| ------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `!q`    | Exit interface                       |
| `!h`    | Interactive help menu                |
| `!m`    | Switch models (with fuzzy finder)    |
| `!p`    | Switch platforms (with fuzzy finder) |
| `!c`    | Clear chat history                   |
| `!t`    | Text editor input mode               |
| `!b`    | Backtrack to previous message        |
| `!l`    | Load files/directories               |
| `!d`    | Generate code dump                   |
| `!e`    | Export selected chat entries         |
| `\\`    | Multi-line input mode                |

### Advanced Features

**Code Export (`-e` flag):**

- Automatically detects programming languages
- Saves with proper file extensions
- Supports 25+ languages and file types

**Interactive Export (`!e`):**

1. Select chat entries with fzf
2. Edit content in your preferred editor
3. Save to timestamped file

## Platform Compatibility

Ch supports multiple AI platforms with seamless switching:

| Platform  | Models                    | Environment Variable |
| --------- | ------------------------- | -------------------- |
| OpenAI    | GPT-4o, GPT-4o-mini, etc. | `OPENAI_API_KEY`     |
| Groq      | Llama3, Mixtral, etc.     | `GROQ_API_KEY`       |
| DeepSeek  | DeepSeek-Chat, etc.       | `DEEP_SEEK_API_KEY`  |
| Anthropic | Claude-3.5, etc.          | `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`  |
| XAI       | Grok models               | `XAI_API_KEY`        |

Switch platforms during conversation:

```bash
!p groq
!p anthropic
!m gpt-4o
```

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or higher
- [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) for interactive selections

### Build from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch.git
cd ch
./build.sh
```

### Build Options

```bash
./build.sh              # build the binary
./build.sh -u           # update dependencies and build
./build.sh -h           # show help

# Available Make Commands
make install      # install to $GOPATH/bin
make clean        # clean build artifacts
make test         # run tests
make lint         # run linter
make fmt          # format code
make dev          # build and run in development mode
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here's how to get started:

1. **Report Issues**: [Open an issue](https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch/issues) for bugs or feature requests
2. **Submit Pull Requests**: Fork, make changes, and submit a PR
3. **Improve Documentation**: Help enhance README, examples, or guides

### Development Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch.git
cd ch
./build.sh -u
make dev
```

### Code Standards

- Follow existing Go conventions
- Run `make fmt` and `make lint` before submitting
- Test your changes thoroughly
- Update documentation as needed
- To add new slow models, update patterns in `internal/platform/platform.go`

## License

Ch is licensed under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

update to include shell session recording feature
- added !x command to handle shell session recording
- integrated handleShellRecord function in main.go to capture and process shell sessions
- updated README.md to mention new shell session recording feature in help and options
- added ShellRecord field to config.go with default key !x
- included RecordShellSession method in ui.go for shell session capture
- ensured user prompts and cleanup are handled during recording
- maintained existing command handling structure for seamless interaction

README.md, after:

# Ch

<a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg" alt="License: MIT"></a>
<a href="https://golang.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/go-1.21+-blue.svg" alt="Go 1.21+"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/MehmetMHY/ch" alt="GitHub stars"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch/graphs/contributors"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/MehmetMHY/ch" alt="Contributors"></a>

**⚠️ This project is actively developed and may have breaking changes. For a stable version, see the original [Cha](https://github.com/MehmetMHY/cha/)!**

## Table of Contents

- [Ch](#ch)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Vision](#vision)
  - [Quick Start](#quick-start)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [API Keys](#api-keys)
    - [Default Settings](#default-settings)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
    - [Interactive Commands](#interactive-commands)
    - [Advanced Features](#advanced-features)
  - [Platform Compatibility](#platform-compatibility)
  - [Development](#development)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Build from Source](#build-from-source)
    - [Available Make Commands](#available-make-commands)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
    - [Development Setup](#development-setup)
    - [Code Standards](#code-standards)
  - [License](#license)

## Overview

**Ch** is a lightweight, GoLang-based version of the popular [Cha](https://github.com/MehmetMHY/cha/) CLI tool. Built from the ground up in Go, Ch is over 10x faster at startup compared to Cha and delivers significantly faster performance for complex processes like codedump. While Cha offers more advanced and powerful features with a larger codebase, Ch prioritizes speed and efficiency, making it ideal for developers who need rapid AI interaction with minimal overhead.

## Vision

Ch follows the Unix philosophy of doing one thing well. It provides direct terminal access to powerful AI models with minimal overhead, transparent operations, and explicit user control. No hidden automation, no surprise file modifications—just fast, reliable AI interaction that integrates seamlessly into your development workflow.

## Quick Start

**Install:**

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MehmetMHY/ch/main/install.sh | bash
```

**Configure:**

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
```

**Start using:**

```bash
ch "What are the key features of Go programming language?"
```

## Features

- **High Performance**: 2.55x faster than the original Python implementation
- **Multi-Platform Support**: OpenAI, Groq, DeepSeek, Anthropic, XAI
- **Interactive & Direct Modes**: Chat interactively or run single queries
- **Smart File Handling**: Load files/directories with intelligent text detection
- **Advanced Export**: Interactive chat export with fzf selection and editor integration
- **Code Block Export**: Extract and save markdown code blocks with proper file extensions
- **Text Editor Integration**: Use your preferred editor for complex prompts
- **Dynamic Switching**: Change models and platforms mid-conversation
- **Chat Backtracking**: Revert to any point in conversation history
- **Code Dump**: Package entire directories for AI analysis
- **Shell Session Recording**: Record terminal sessions and provide them as context to the model.
- **Colored Output**: Platform and model names displayed in distinct colors

## Installation

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MehmetMHY/ch/main/install.sh | bash
```

**Alternative methods:**

```bash
# using wget
wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MehmetMHY/ch/main/install.sh | bash

# manual clone and install
git clone https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch.git
cd ch
./install.sh
```

The installer automatically:

- Checks for Go 1.21+ and dependencies (fzf)
- Installs missing dependencies via system package managers
- Builds and installs Ch to `~/.ch/bin/ch`
- Creates global symlink at `/usr/local/bin/ch`
- Configures PATH if needed

## Configuration

### API Keys

Set up API keys for your chosen platforms:

```bash
# required
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-key"

# optional additional platforms
export GROQ_API_KEY="your-groq-key"
export DEEPSEEK_API_KEY="your-deepseek-key"
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-anthropic-key"
export XAI_API_KEY="your-xai-key"
```

### Default Settings

Customize default platform and model:

```bash
export CH_DEFAULT_PLATFORM="groq"        # default: "openai"
export CH_DEFAULT_MODEL="llama3-8b-8192" # default: "gpt-4o-mini"
```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```bash
# interactive mode
ch

# direct query
ch "Explain quantum computing"

# platform-specific query
ch -p groq "Write a Go function to reverse a string"

# model-specific query
ch -m gpt-4o "Create a REST API in Python"

# export code blocks to files
ch -e "Write a Python script to sort a list"
```

### Interactive Commands

When in interactive mode (`ch`), use these commands:

| Command | Description                          |
| ------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `!q`    | Exit interface                       |
| `!h`    | Interactive help menu                |
| `!m`    | Switch models (with fuzzy finder)    |
| `!p`    | Switch platforms (with fuzzy finder) |
| `!c`    | Clear chat history                   |
| `!t`    | Text editor input mode               |
| `!b`    | Backtrack to previous message        |
| `!l`    | Load files/directories               |
| `!d`    | Generate code dump                   |
| `!e`    | Export selected chat entries         |
| `!x`    | Record a shell session for context   |
| `\\`    | Multi-line input mode                |

### Advanced Features

**Code Export (`-e` flag):**

- Automatically detects programming languages
- Saves with proper file extensions
- Supports 25+ languages and file types

**Interactive Export (`!e`):**

1. Select chat entries with fzf
2. Edit content in your preferred editor
3. Save to timestamped file

## Platform Compatibility

Ch supports multiple AI platforms with seamless switching:

| Platform  | Models                    | Environment Variable |
| --------- | ------------------------- | -------------------- |
| OpenAI    | GPT-4o, GPT-4o-mini, etc. | `OPENAI_API_KEY`     |
| Groq      | Llama3, Mixtral, etc.     | `GROQ_API_KEY`       |
| DeepSeek  | DeepSeek-Chat, etc.       | `DEEPSEEK_API_KEY`   |
| Anthropic | Claude-3.5, etc.          | `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`  |
| XAI       | Grok models               | `XAI_API_KEY`        |

Switch platforms during conversation:

```bash
!p groq
!p anthropic
!m gpt-4o
```

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or higher
- [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) for interactive selections

### Build from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch.git
cd ch
./build.sh
```

### Build Options

```bash
./build.sh              # build the binary
./build.sh -u           # update dependencies and build
./build.sh -h           # show help

# Available Make Commands
make install      # install to $GOPATH/bin
make clean        # clean build artifacts
make test         # run tests
make lint         # run linter
make fmt          # format code
make dev          # build and run in development mode
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here's how to get started:

1. **Report Issues**: [Open an issue](https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch/issues) for bugs or feature requests
2. **Submit Pull Requests**: Fork, make changes, and submit a PR
3. **Improve Documentation**: Help enhance README, examples, or guides

### Development Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/MehmetMHY/ch.git
cd ch
./build.sh -u
make dev
```

### Code Standards

- Follow existing Go conventions
- Run `make fmt` and `make lint` before submitting
- Test your changes thoroughly
- Update documentation as needed
- To add new slow models, update patterns in `internal/platform/platform.go`

## License

Ch is licensed under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for details.
